README.md, before:

# HamClock-Next

HamClock-Next is a modern, SDL2-based reconstruction of the classic HamClock. It focuses on visual fidelity, high-DPI support, and a smooth user experience while maintaining the essential functionality loved by amateur radio operators.

## 🚀 Key Accomplishments

### Visuals & Rendering
- **High-Fidelity Rendering**: Implemented text super-sampling and logical scaling for crisp 4K/Retina display.
- **Dynamic Seasonal Maps**: Automatically downloads high-resolution NASA Blue Marble backgrounds based on the current month, with a vector grid fallback for offline use.
- **Zero-Asset Binary**: Essential assets (fonts, icons) are embedded directly into the executable, creating a self-contained single-file deployment.
- **Graphics Smoothing**: Hardware-accelerated anti-aliasing (4x MSAA) and ribbon-path primitives for smooth great circles and satellite tracks.
- **Advanced Caching**: Implemented a "lean" caching system using HTTP HEAD validation (`Last-Modified`/`ETag`) to save bandwidth by avoiding redundant downloads.

### Features
- **Global Map**: Interactive map with day/night terminator, great circle paths, and real-time overlays.
- **Live Spots**: Real-time band activity visualization using PSK Reporter data, with map plotting for selected bands.
- **Satellite Tracking**: Comprehensive satellite tracking with a high-fidelity polar plot, rise/set predictions, and map footprints.
- **Smart Setup**: Easy configuration of callsign and location via Maidenhead grid squares or direct map interaction (Shift-Click to set DE).
- **RSS News Banner**: Smoothly scrolling news ticker aggregating multiple amateur radio news feeds.
- **Solar Weather**: Integrated Space Weather data visualization.

## 🛠️ Requirements & Dependencies

To compile HamClock-Next, you will need the following libraries and tools installed on your system:

### System Libraries
- **SDL2**: Simple DirectMedia Layer 2.0 (core graphics and input)
- **SDL2_ttf**: SDL2 TrueType Font library
- **SDL2_image**: SDL2 Image loading library
- **libcurl**: Client URL library (for data fetching)
- **Threads**: POSIX threads (built-in on most Linux systems)

### Tools
- **CMake**: Version 3.20 or higher
- **C++20 Compiler**: e.g., GCC 15.2.1 or newer
- **Make/Ninja**: Build automation tools

*Note: `nlohmann_json` and `libpredict` are automatically fetched and built via CMake during the first compilation.*

## 🏗️ Build Instructions

1. **Install dependencies** (Example for Ubuntu/Debian):
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install cmake build-essential libsdl2-dev libsdl2-ttf-dev libsdl2-image-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev
   ```

2. **Configure and Build**:
   ```bash
   mkdir build && cd build
   cmake ..
   make -j$(nproc)
   ```

3. **Run**:
   ```bash
   ./hamclock-next
   ```

## 🗺️ Roadmap & Next Steps

Based on the [PROJECT_STATUS.md](PROJECT_STATUS.md), the following features are planned:

- [ ] **Phase 13.3: DX Cluster Integration** — Real-time Telnet/UDP DX Cluster spot management and display.
- [ ] **Propogation Panel** — Band conditions and signal modeling.
- [ ] **Contest Widget** — Upcoming ham radio contest tracking.
- [ ] **On-The-Air Widget** — Monitoring POTA/SOTA/IOTA activity.
- [ ] **Enhanced Map Layers** — Weather, gray line optimizations, and more interactive spot filtering.

---
*Created with ❤️ by the HamClock-Next team.*

Commit message:

feat: improve DX Cluster reliability and implement Remote API documentation
This commit addresses critical issues with the DX Cluster data flow and
expands the application's automation and branding capabilities.

DX Cluster Reliability:
- Implemented immediate callsign handshake upon Telnet connection to handle clusters with silent login prompts.
- Switched to standard CRLF (\r\n) line endings for Telnet protocol compliance.
- Added automated 'sh/dx 30' command post-login to ensure immediate spot flow.
- Improved 'processLine' parsing to handle variable whitespace and node-name prefixes.

Remote API & Debugging:
- Created API.md documenting all web server endpoints (Live View, Remote Control, Discovery).
- Added /debug/type and /debug/keypress for automated text injection and special key simulation.
- Instrumented UI widgets with semantic actions for coordinate-independent remote interaction.
- Maintained parity with legacy HamClock reporting via /get_config.txt and /get_time.txt.

UI & Branding:
- Configured individual application taskbar icon using icon.png via SDL_SetWindowIcon.
- Implemented RenderUtils::drawGear for a high-fidelity, anti-aliased procedural Gear icon.
- Standardized UI icons across TimePanel and SDO configuration menus.
- Cleaned up unused headers and improved internal build efficiency.

README.md, after:

# HamClock-Next

HamClock-Next is a modern, SDL2-based reconstruction of the classic HamClock. It focuses on visual fidelity, high-DPI support, and a smooth user experience while maintaining the essential functionality loved by amateur radio operators.

## 🚀 Key Accomplishments

### Visuals & Rendering
- **High-Fidelity Rendering**: Implemented text super-sampling and logical scaling for crisp 4K/Retina display.
- **Dynamic Seasonal Maps**: Automatically downloads high-resolution NASA Blue Marble backgrounds based on the current month, with a vector grid fallback for offline use.
- **Zero-Asset Binary**: Essential assets (fonts, icons) are embedded directly into the executable, creating a self-contained single-file deployment.
- **Graphics Smoothing**: Hardware-accelerated anti-aliasing (4x MSAA) and ribbon-path primitives for smooth great circles and satellite tracks.
- **Advanced Caching**: Implemented a "lean" caching system using HTTP HEAD validation (`Last-Modified`/`ETag`) to save bandwidth by avoiding redundant downloads.

### Features
- **Global Map**: Interactive map with day/night terminator, great circle paths, and real-time overlays.
- **Live Spots**: Real-time band activity visualization using PSK Reporter data, with map plotting for selected bands.
- **Satellite Tracking**: Comprehensive satellite tracking with a high-fidelity polar plot, rise/set predictions, and map footprints.
- **Smart Setup**: Easy configuration of callsign and location via Maidenhead grid squares or direct map interaction (Shift-Click to set DE).
- **RSS News Banner**: Smoothly scrolling news ticker aggregating multiple amateur radio news feeds.
- **Solar Weather**: Integrated Space Weather data visualization.

## 🛠️ Requirements & Dependencies

To compile HamClock-Next, you will need the following libraries and tools installed on your system:

### System Libraries
- **SDL2**: Simple DirectMedia Layer 2.0 (core graphics and input)
- **SDL2_ttf**: SDL2 TrueType Font library
- **SDL2_image**: SDL2 Image loading library
- **libcurl**: Client URL library (for data fetching)
- **Threads**: POSIX threads (built-in on most Linux systems)

### Tools
- **CMake**: Version 3.18 or higher (compatible with RPi OS Bookworm)
- **C++20 Compiler**: e.g., GCC 12.2 (Pi OS 12) or newer
- **Make/Ninja**: Build automation tools

*Note: `nlohmann_json` and `libpredict` are automatically fetched and built via CMake during the first compilation.*

## 🏗️ Build Instructions

1. **Install dependencies** (Example for Ubuntu/Debian):
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install cmake build-essential libsdl2-dev libsdl2-ttf-dev libsdl2-image-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev
   ```

2. **Configure and Build**:
   ```bash
   mkdir build && cd build
   cmake ..
   make -j$(nproc)
   ```

3. **Run**:
   ```bash
   ./hamclock-next
   ```
   *Optional: Use `-f` or `--fullscreen` to force start in fullscreen mode.*

## 🛠️ Raspberry Pi & Console Mode (No X11)

If you are running on a headless or console-only system (like Pi-Star or Raspbian Lite) without X11/Wayland, you may need to use the software renderer.

### Running on Framebuffer (/dev/fb0)
If you encounter `SDL_Init failed: No available video device`, ensure your user is in the `video` and `render` groups:
```bash
sudo usermod -aG video,render $USER
```
Then try:
```bash
# SDL_VIDEODRIVER=kmsdrm is the standard for RPi console mode
sudo SDL_VIDEODRIVER=kmsdrm ./hamclock-next --fullscreen --software
```

*Note: On Raspberry Pi 3B, ensure `dtoverlay=vc4-kms-v3d` is NOT inside a `[pi4]` block in `/boot/config.txt`. It must be in the `[all]` section or at the top level to be active.*

### Command Line Options
- `-f, --fullscreen`: Launch in fullscreen mode.
- `-s, --software`: Force software rendering (disables OpenGL/MSAA). Essential for environments without a functioning 3D setup or DRI access.
- `-h, --help`: Show help message.

## 🗺️ Roadmap & Next Steps

Based on the [PROJECT_STATUS.md](PROJECT_STATUS.md), the following features are planned:

- [ ] **Phase 13.3: DX Cluster Integration** — Real-time Telnet/UDP DX Cluster spot management and display.
- [ ] **Propogation Panel** — Band conditions and signal modeling.
- [ ] **Contest Widget** — Upcoming ham radio contest tracking.
- [ ] **On-The-Air Widget** — Monitoring POTA/SOTA/IOTA activity.
- [ ] **Enhanced Map Layers** — Weather, gray line optimizations, and more interactive spot filtering.

---
*Created with ❤️ by the HamClock-Next team.*
